== Mihimihi

This is my mihimihi app (located at [http://mihimihi.maori.geek.nz/](http://mihimihi.maori.geek.nz/)). 
It is written in Ruby on Rails, though it is mostly Sass and CoffeScript, Backbone.js and d3.js.

To host the images I am using an Amazon S3 bucket.


== Mix'n'Mash writeup

Description

A digital Mihimihi back to the birth of man! Have a play and explore history, family, and the location of the self in an electronic age. We couldn't miss this outstanding story, it scooped up a $150 prize.

Graham said

I have recently become interested in my family’s history. I want to know where I am from, who are my ancestors, and what events led me to be here? I have used this Mix & Mash competition as an excuse to answer these questions and research my families history, and I present it as a visual story. I have titled my entry Mihimihi. A mihimihi is a Maori speech where a person gives their whakapapa (genealogy) by describing their iwi (tribe), their hapu (local tribe), their whanau (family) and finishes with an introduction to themselves. The purpose of the mihimihi is to establish links to the people that hear it, as if you go back far enough and include enough people, everyone is linked. My submission is my mihimihi. To establish a link to anyone who reads it, I have started my mihimihi when modern humans first evolved in Africa 200,000 years ago. From there I describe the journeys and some of the challenges my ancestors would have gone through getting from Africa to New Zealand. I introduce my family (as far back as I have found), and finally I introduce myself.. I present this as a description of where I came from, in an attempt to understand who I am. This is the story of my ancestors, my family, and therefore the story of me.

Selected judges comments

"It's powerfully grounding and develops a strong connection between the audience and author. I feel like I know your whole family!"

"This is a huge, well-thought-through, enjoyable project that knits together time and space, encyclopedia and photo album, history and story, to make us rethink the idea of tikanga, the etiquette of introductions, and the location of the self in an electronic age."

"Invoking your ancestors is one thing, but going all the way back to the dawn of humanity? Next level!"

Sources

Wikipeidia sources are either Public domain or share with attribution.
Digital NZ and other New Zealand sources all allow sharing.

National Library
http://natlib.govt.nz/records/22811829 : Lake Taupo

Papers Past
http://paperspast.natlib.govt.nz/cgi-bin/paperspast?a=d&cl=search&d=DOM19190402.2.2.2&srpos=3&e=-------10--1----0warren+gisborne-- : John Warren Obituary

Viscortia University
http://nzetc.victoria.ac.nz/tm/scholarly/tei-Cyc02Cycl-t1-body1-d3-d6-d6.html#t1-body1-d3-d6-d6-d7-d7 : John Warren
http://nzetc.victoria.ac.nz/tm/scholarly/DarJour-fig-DarJo316.html : Australian natives as drawn by Charles Darwinx

DigitalNZ
http://digitalnz.org/records/1841561 : Island boat image
http://digitalnz.org/records/1852236 : Painting
'http://digitalnz.org/records/29955021 : The British Map
http://www.digitalnz.org/records/1843839 : Jean-Pierre Norblin - Man Walking with a Stick (1779)
http://digitalnz.org/records/1844823 : Maori tatoo drawing from 1833
http://api.digitalnz.org/records/19475827/source : Indus Valley Civilisation article
http://www.digitalnz.org/records/30071674 : Te Waka Tarakau of Ngati Kahungunu (1836)
http://digitalnz.org/records/1851131 : James Cook's arrival to New Zealand
http://www.digitalnz.org/records/10385875 : Article about John Warren's sons drowning

Wikipeida
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/King_Arthur : Legendary King Arthur
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Great_Pyramid_of_Giza : Great Pyramids of Giza
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neanderthal : Neanderthal
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Qafzeh : Qafzeh-Skhul
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clovis_culture : Early American pointed projectile
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cherokee : Three Cherokee men
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rimutaka_Tunnel : Rimutaka Tunnel
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magdalenian : Magdalenian culture
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gravettian_culture : Gravettian culture
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stonehenge : Stonehenge
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Treaty_of_Waitangi : Hone Heke
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Penn%27s_Treaty_with_the_Indians : Penn Treaty
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Early_human_migrations : Red sea crossing (author Muntuwandi)
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roman_conquest_of_Britain : Roman conquest of Britain
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/American_mastodon : Mastodons
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paleo-Indian : Paleoamericans
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Skara_Brae : Skara Brae village
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Machu_Picchu : Machu Picchu
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_Shakespeare : William Shakespeare (1564 - 1616)
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Generall_Historie_of_Virginia,_New-England,_and_the_Summer_Isles : From a book by John Smith (1580-1631)
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jebel_Irhoud : Jebel Irhoud skull 160,000 years old
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aurignacian : The Aurignacian culture
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Toba_catastrophe_theory : Toba crater
